Final DH Reflection

The beginning of the freshmen year of college is always a time that is characterized by confusion and transition. Combined with remote learning, It’s safe to say that this semester was difficult. For us, DH Lab provided a way to socialize and make new friends during unprecedented times. Between complaining about linters and reading Stack Overflow posts, we really bonded. The lab was a great way for us to socialize and make an impact with our technical skills beyond the realm of the classroom. Coding over zoom proved to have a silver lining: we could easily share screens, allowing us to hone our peer programming and communication skills. Ultimately, the project was as much a social experience as it was a learning experience. 
When people look at digital archives, people almost always take certain features for granted: the next picture button, sorting photos, filtering through photos, visual analyses, etc. It all seems so simple, but once we started working on the project, we began seeing the intricacies behind it all. Take vanishing points for example. When we as humans see pictures, it’s easy for us to pinpoint a vanishing point if a picture has one, but for computers, we have to tell them to first find the edges, draw lines, and then see if there’s a point where most of the lines intersect. Even then, the computers still don’t necessarily see the same lines as we do, and trees can get in the way of accuracy.
	Our time at DH lab has not only provided us with a supportive environment but also an environment where growth is encouraged. Through participation in this project, we have been able to grow and explore our interests in humanities and computer science. The lab gave us the freedom and resources to explore through weekly lab sessions and mentorship. One of the best parts of working with the lab was the collaborative environment, we were able to develop strong connections with each other while also working on our technical skills. We were exposed to many tools and libraries used in the industry such as Django, React, OpenCV, and Pytorch. The technical knowledge that we gained this semester will aid us in the projects we will pursue in the lab and beyond. The lab gave us the opportunity to pursue mini projects of our own choice which allowed us to bond with each other because we were able to find common interests and learn more about our interests together. 
	As a first venture into the digital humanities, this project was a humbling view into the world of humanities research. With many of us going into this project with minimal knowledge of life in Paris during the tumultuous period of reconstruction in the 1960s and 70s, being immersed in the photographic history of the city was a truly unique experience. We learned about what photographers thought was worth documenting through the subjects of their photographs, what was accentuated in their captions, and the contents of the foreground. The culture of Paris as well as its organization into arrondissements played a large role in what was included in the photographs from each map square, allowing us to gain familiarity with parts of Paris in 1970. 
	Being in the DH lab has shown us how beautifully computer science can go with the humanities. Many of us came into MIT as a freshman wondering how we were going to combine our love for the arts with the more practical, yet still enjoyable parts of computer science. We have since learned that combining our passions is something that can truly be done. Alongside creating the more technical aspects of the website, the DH Lab educated us on the significance behind the data we were working with, showing us the deep history combined with, allowing our teams to better fine-tune our projects to be more relevant and have a more significant impact on the project. Not only did we observe the deep lore of our data, but we also studied how other databases have presented their ideas, widening our intellectual libraries and sparking ideas for our own works. This was also the first time many of us collaboratively coded. Even with the nature of remote working with unstable wifi’s making communication and efficiency harder, we would still label the whole experience as a positive seeing experience with GitHub and collaborative coding, and many of us who lacked experience learned much of the inner workings that went with larger and more involved projects. 
